Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder, or ADHD,
is one of the most common mental disorders
affecting children and can continue as an adult.
An estimated 8.4% of children
and 2.5% of adults have ADHD.
It’s usually identified in children first
because of disruptions in classrooms
and problems with school assignments.
To understand ADHD,
you first have to understand the 3 main types:
Hyperactive/Impulsive,
Inattentive,
and Combined.
The Hyperactive/Impulsive type
is the least common
and may show signs of an inability to sit still,
excess energy,
and can be extremely talkative.
Often interrupting others
and acting without thinking.
Inattentive type will struggle more
with maintaining attention and focus,
will often have difficulty following detailed directions,
and will struggle to listen.
Someone with Inattentive type
may always look like they’re daydreaming.
The Combined type is the most common
and is a mixture of all the symptoms
and meets the criteria for both
Hyperactive/Impulsive and Inattentive types.
Someone diagnosed with combined type
will likely experience hyperactivity and impulsivity,
while also struggling with
inattention and distractibility.
It may be difficult for them to
concentrate in class or at work,
and they will likely struggle with self-control.
To be diagnosed with a type of ADHD
a child up to the age of 16
must have at least 6 symptoms.
If you are 17 or older,
you must have at least 5 symptoms.
And symptoms must be present
for at least 6 months.
If you or your child has been diagnosed with ADHD,
the most important thing to know
is that treatment for ADHD works.
Treatment usually involves a combination
of behavioral therapy and medication.
Behavioral therapy will build skills
to minimize distractions,
increase structure and organization,
and garner support from family members.
ADHD medicine,
usually in the form of stimulants,
will help with focus and attention.
If you suspect that you or someone you know
might have ADHD,
talk with a healthcare provider,
who will perform an evaluation
and discuss treatment options.